# maskr-cnn-for-inspection
a novel solder joint recognition method based on the state-of-the-art Mask R-CNN deep learning method
《Solder Joint Recognition Using Mask R-CNN Method》https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8894555/

Main references and tools
Open source project based on Mask RCNN: https://github.com/matterport/Mask_RCNN
The image labeling tool is based on an open source project: https://github.com/wkentaro/labelme
Training tools: ubuntu16.04,GPU GTX1080TI,  Python 3.6,TensorFlow-gpu 1.9,Keras 2.1.6, 60 images, 5 types in total,

You can refer to the use of labelme: https://github.com/wkentaro/labelme


Prepare training data set
Here are the four folders of my resume. Come here one by one ~

1.pic

Here are  solder images of training

2.json

This is the file generated after processing the training images through labelme

3.labelme_json


This is the data generated after processing the .json file. The usage method is labelme_json_to_dataset + space + file name.json. This premise is that labelme must be installed and activated accurately. But this will cause a problem. It is too much trouble to process multiple images in this way. Here is a tool that can directly convert all json files in the .json file directory. Link: json data conversion tool.

4.cv2_mask file

As the mask label label.png generated by labelme is stored in 16 bits, opencv reads 8 bits by default and needs to convert 16 bits to 8 bits, which can be converted by C ++ program. For the code, please refer to this blog post: http: //blog.csdn .net / l297969586 / article / details / 79154150

It's black, but don't be afraid, it's normal ~

